The process followed for the data evaluation consists of a data attestation performed by the Risk Data 
Team (RDT). A pre-defined set of standard controls are performed along with a series of ad-hoc sense 
checks, designed by MVT. This includes reviewing the assessment performed on the internal Bank RDS.
Outline
The internal data used for the proposed Bank model build has been through an attestation process 
performed by the Risk Data Team (RDT) to assure appropriateness of the data for use in modelling 
and the lineage of the data to its source. The data attestation process was performed on the entire 
internal Bank RDS. 
The following tests on the data were performed through Risk Data’s attestation framework:
• Completeness: To ensure that the values are present in the attributes that require them;
• Accuracy: To ensure the data is substantially error-free;
• Consistency: To ensure that a given set of data can be matched across different data sources 
of the institution;
• Validity: To ensure that the data is founded on an adequate system of classification, rigorous 
enough to compel acceptance;
• Uniqueness: To ensure aggregate data is free from any duplication given by filters or other 
transformations of source data;
• Timeliness: to ensure that the data values are up to date;
• Traceability: The history, processing and location of data under consideration can be easily
traced.
Data attestation logs were compiled for the fields used in the RDS. The first aim of an RDS creation is,
where possible, to source data from the FDM which is a data source within the EDW. During the data 
attestation process, data sourced from alternative tables have also been identified and proposed for 
use, where equivalent FDM data is not available. These items were then attested to during this 
process.
All the fields as per source tables were included in the tests outlined above. The results from the tests 
will indicate whether the fields would be considered in the model development process or not. The 
attestation log consists of a list of fields, source tables, database names, description of the fields and 
other useful information pertaining to each data point. Along with the attestation log, a Masterfile
was provided which contains a list of tests executed (with its own unique identifier for each test), their 
description and the logic used. A separate file with the results for these tests was also submitted to 
MVT. 
MVT Review
MVT reviewed the data attestation process conducted by the RDT and performed the following sense 
checks for the tests outlined above (except for traceability, which is an assessment done by MVT to 
verify if RDT could provide existence of documentation) for a selection of fields:
